hi this is Andrew Klein Autodesk
certified instructor for Maya also
instruct the art institute of california
san francisco this is a demo which is
going to cover building a foot as you
see so far i've inserted several image
planes into Maya and I've aligned them
properly we have images of a foot from
the top and side I've also inserted
images of a tibia and fibula the bones
of the leg into the front view it's
going to help me a line up my leg I'm
actually start building here with the
foot and my primary method is actually
building out a stirrup first i'm going
to select these two edges on the front
side and extrude downwards right over
the first ankle let's will be the inside
ankle and as you see here based on the
bone we actually have a different
position of the ankle between inside and
the outside the medial and lateral sides
of the ankle so when I screw down these
edges to make new faces for the left
side notice how I'm going to pull them
down further here to meet up with the
fibula which ends up meeting lower down
this is a configuration that you should
get by moving these vertices Apple
trying to make a little rounded cup
shape to match up the position with what
was going on with ankles then I'm
amazing at Penn polygon tools you see
here to really finish that off like I
said making a stirrup with the insert
edge loop tool I'll insert an edge loop
and scale it move it down so it fits the
position on the bottom of the foot just
make sure my vertices here are even up
with that bottom edge let's use the
insert edge loop tool again to do this
same thing as before one of things
you'll notice about me in this tutorial
is I have a custom shelf running at the
top of the screen currently with
commonly used tools such as you create
polygon tool the append polygon tool
insert edge loop tool select edge loops
like border edge extrude face and things
like that
and I'll be going there mostly instead
of the normal locations up in the
netting is just to save some time now as
I'm manipulating this section and as I
pulled this stirrup down and one of
things i like about the stirrup is that
it gives me the ability to then
separately extrude out a face later on
or a set of faces later on to fill up
the back what I make sure that I've done
right now is I'm trying to match up to
the face count on the top coming down
from the leg with what I have on the
bottom so that this will hopefully seem
up pretty nicely let's just move that
out and with soften normals delete my
history and that's the first step